---
layout: default
title: Vortex Editor
nav_order: 4
---

# Vortex Editor

The Vortex Editor is a powerful software tool developed by StoneOrbits to provide an intuitive and user-friendly interface for programming and customizing Vortex Devices. It allows you to create, edit, and manage modes for your devices with ease, and offers a range of advanced features to help you get the most out of your Vortex Devices.

## Overview

The Vortex Editor is designed to be easy to use, yet powerful. It provides a visual interface for creating and editing modes, allowing you to see your changes in real-time on your connected device. You can easily adjust patterns, colorsets, and other settings, and see the results immediately.

The Vortex Editor also provides a way to manage your modes. You can save modes to your computer, load them onto your device, and even share them with others. This makes it easy to build up a library of your favorite modes and to share your creations with the Vortex community.

## Features

### Mode Creation and Editing

The Vortex Editor provides a visual interface for creating and editing modes. You can select from a range of patterns and colorsets, and adjust settings such as brightness and speed. The editor provides real-time feedback, so you can see your changes as you make them.

### Mode Management

The Vortex Editor makes it easy to manage your modes. You can save modes to your computer, load them onto your device, and even share them with others. This makes it easy to build up a library of your favorite modes and to share your creations with the Vortex community.

### Device Compatibility

The Vortex Editor is compatible with all Vortex Devices except the Duo. This means you can use the same software to program your Gloves, Orbit, and Orbit Handles. The editor automatically detects the type of device connected and adjusts its interface accordingly.

Although the Duo is technically not capable of communicating over usb (hardware restrictions of the duo itself) it is still capable of receiving modes generated by the editor on other devices.

A very popular way to program the duos is to modify the first two slots on an orbit then send that mode to the duos via mode transfer.

## Getting Started

To get started with the Vortex Editor, you'll need a Vortex Device and a computer with a USB port. Simply download the Vortex Editor software from the StoneOrbits website, connect your device to your computer via USB, and start creating!

