---
layout: default
title: Randomizer
nav_order: 1
parent: Menus
grand_parent: Vortex Engine
---

# Randomizer Menu

The Randomizer menu is a powerful tool that allows you to generate new modes on the fly. It's perfect for when you want to experiment with different combinations of patterns and colorsets, or when you just want to add a bit of randomness to your light shows.

## How it Works

The Randomizer menu in Vortex Engine doesn't just pick random patterns and colorsets out of thin air. Instead, it uses intelligent algorithms to generate modes that are not only unique but also visually appealing and interesting.

When generating a new pattern, the Randomizer takes into account various factors such as the pattern's complexity, rhythm, and visual impact. It doesn't just randomly pick a pattern, but rather it randomly chooses parameters to build patterns that are known to create visually stunning effects.

Similarly, when generating a new colorset, the Randomizer doesn't just pick random colors. It uses color theory principles to create colorsets that are harmonious and pleasing to the eye. It takes into account factors such as color harmony, contrast, and saturation.

In other words, the Randomizer doesn't just create random modes, it creates smart random modes. It's like having a lighting designer in your pocket, ready to create stunning light shows at the press of a button.

## The Random Seed

When a computer wants to generate a random number a common method is something called a Pseudo Random Number Generator (PRNG), this is a math equation that when given any input seemingly appears to give random output -- however if it's given the same input over and over then it will always give the same output.

In computing, a "seed" is a starting point for a sequence of random numbers. When a psuedo random number generator is given a specific seed it will produce a sequence of numbers that appear random, but are actually predetermined. If you start with the same seed, you'll get the same sequence of numbers.

In the context of the Vortex Engine Mode Randomizer, the "seed" of all randomization steps is based on the current mode. This means that the sequence of random modes generated by the Randomizer is determined by the current mode when you enter the Randomizer menu. If you start with the same mode, you'll get the same sequence of random modes.

This is like giving each mode its own unique "name" or "ID". When the Randomizer uses this "name" as a seed, it will always produce the same sequence of random modes. This can be useful for synchronizing multiple devices or for recreating a particular sequence of modes.

Even though the sequence of modes is predetermined by the seed, the modes themselves can still be quite varied and unpredictable, making each use of the Randomizer a unique experience.

## Using The Randomizer

When you enter the Randomizer menu, the device will start with the current mode unchanged. This allows you to perform a long click to save and exit without making any changes.  

To use the basic Randomizer menu, follow these steps:

1. Enter the Randomizer menu by performing a long press on the device button until the LED turns white.
2. To generate a new mode, perform a short click. The device will create a new mode by randomizing both the pattern and the colorset.
3. To save the new mode, perform a long click. The device will save the mode and exit the Randomizer menu.

## Advanced Randomization

For more advanced users, the Randomizer menu offers additional control over the randomization process. In the advanced version of the Randomizer menu, you can choose to randomize either the pattern, the colorset, or both. 

To use the advanced randomizer just perform one extra step, upon entering the menu you will be able to choose from three options:

1. The LED will play a rainbow ribbon for colorset randomization
2. The LED will display a white strobe for pattern only randomization
3. The LED will strobe with a rainbow for pattern and colorset randomization.

Pick one of the options and then follow the same steps for using the randomizer as normal.

Remember, the Randomizer menu is all about experimentation and discovery. Don't be afraid to play around with the settings and see what you can come up with!

## Auto Randomization

The Randomizer menu also includes an Auto Cycle mode. If you perform three consecutive short clicks, the device will automatically generate a new mode every few seconds. This can be a fun way to see a variety of different modes in a short amount of time. To turn off Auto Cycle mode, perform three consecutive short clicks again.
